All right so we're gonna go ahead and get started here.
Now I'm going to keep the final project open just as a reference so that I can point to guys like when
I'm creating the each team on CSX I can show you exactly what I'm doing in the final project.
And like I said in the last video a lot of times you'll get the design beforehand and you'll just have
to use it as a reference and create the each team Allen CSX.
So we'll kind of take that approach.
And I'm also going to for now have the browser and the text editor open at the same time I don't like
how narrow this is but at the same time I want you to see to see them both.
OK.
If we get to a point where we're creating stuff like this and it doesn't look good when it's this narrow
then I'll make it bigger.
OK.
So first thing we want to do is create a project folder so you can put that anywhere in your system.
I'm going to go to my desktop and I'm just going to call this folder.
Let's do hotel underscore Web site and we can open this invis code.
So it's a open folder and we want hotel Web site.
It's completely empty and going to create first of all a folder for our images.
And you can call this images or AMG is another common convention so I'm going to use that and then we
want to get all the image resources that you downloaded in the first video of this section which I have
right here and we want to put those into our I am G folder.
So let's go ahead and select all these and bring them into I am G.
What happened.
There we go.
All right.
So now those are in there.
We can close these up and go back into v as code.
And now you can see I have all the images here.
So next thing we'll do is create our page structure as you can see we have three pages home about in
contact.
Now remember in the beginning of the H Tim L. basics section I said that when you have a home page of
a Web site you need to call it index dot each team out because when you go to something whatever dot
com it's going to look for that file as the home page.
So let's say index start HDMI all as a new new file i click to this icon and we might as well create
the rest of the team all pages so we'll do each team about each team l dot age know let's do contact
dot age Timo.
OK.
We're also going to need our CSX our style sheet and we're not going to be putting our our CSX in the
H team out like we did in the sandbox.
I only did that for convenience when you have a project you want to create separate style sheets and
generally you want a separate folder that contains those.
So I'm going to click this folder icon and create a folder called CSX.
OK.
And then inside there I'm going to create a new file called style dot CSX and the named style isn't
it doesn't matter what you call this but style main dot CSX.
These are common conventions for main style sheets but it doesn't it doesn't really matter.
OK.
So now that we have that that's basically are our Web site structure.
So we're gonna head into the index each team how we can close up about and contact for now but let's
open up our style sheet as well.
So we have these two files open and let's generate our head body tags.
So exclamation enter tab and we'll change the title here to let's say hotel Beatty.
And usually you'll have like some kind of separator like a dash or a pipe character.
And then if you're if you're focused on search engines like you want or you want to rank for let's say
Boston hotel you might put something like that here as long as it makes sense.
But we're just going to put welcome because it's the home page OK.
And you'll probably want to put some meta tags in here like description.
I'm not going to do this for every project we create but I'll do it for this one just because it's the
first.
So let's say Name Description and let's do content equals and then I'll just say welcome to the most
extraordinary Hotel in
Boston
Massachusetts.
So that's our description.
Let's do another medal tag.
This will be our keyword.
So we wanted to name equals keywords and for the content you'd probably do something like hotel whatever
the location so something like Boston hotel New England hotel and whatever it may be whatever keywords
describe this page.
All right.
Now in addition to that we want to link our style sheet.
So we use a link tag and with I use Emmet if I do link enter our link tab it will automatically put
in the real attribute.
So the rally is going to be equal to style sheet because we're just telling it that we're importing
a style sheet here CSX file and then in the atria if we want to point to that file.
Now remember we put it inside of a folder called CSX.
So we want to say CSX slash style dot CSX OK and then we can get started with the the body here.
Now it's important to mention that everyone has their own style.
Everyone has their own naming conventions and how they want to structure tags.
For instance what I'm going to do is have a header tag.
So just put it in header and inside my head or I want the navigation and the showcase I want this whole
area to be the header but it's fine if you would have just this inside the header tag and then maybe
have section for this you're going to see that you're going to see different styles when you're looking
at different HD PML and you're going to develop your own style.
What I do here is just what I like to do.
And I like to think that it's it's it's OK.
And hopefully you guys don't mind the way that I do things but I just want to I want I want to make
it clear that every developer has their own style of doing things and not just each Tim Al any kind
of programming anything like that.
So like I said I want the NAV the now bar in here so I'm going to create a nav tag and I'm actually
going to give this an I.D. of NAV bar and inside the nav bar we're gonna have the logo.
This right here which is just an H1 and then we're going to have our our navigation which is unordered
list.
So let's put an H1 which I'm actually going to give a class of logo and that's another thing that is
different depending on the as is how you use I.D. and classes I could easily call this a class and this
an I.D. that's fine.
The one major rule that I would say should never break is don't have more than one I.D. like don't have
another I.D. of nav bar on the same page.
But I mean some people you will use just classes I tend to use I.D. for stuff that I won't have duplicates
of and that kind of surround everything else that they're parents of other things.
For instance we have the H1 and the well in here the NAV surrounds them so I'm going to use an I.D.
here.
So for the logo WE'RE GONNA GONNA DO HB T.
And usually you'll have your logo go to your home page like you'll see if I click on if I hover over
it it's a link and it goes back to the home page.
So if I'm on about and I click that take me back.
So we want to surround this in an A tag and we want this to go to index dot HMO.
All right make sure that you're closing a tag is on the other side of the head the HB T.
All right.
I'm just going to close this sidebar up to give me some more rum as well.
OK.
So that's our H1.
Now we want the L right here.
So let's do you all list item and then in each list item we'll have a link.
This is going to go to index start each team out and this is going to be our home page.
I'm going to do control option down our control all down on a Windows machine and let's do about
say about done HMO Contact
contact.
OK so there's our NAV bar now let's open this in live server and it's going to look horrible because
we have no CSX.
So that's what we're gonna do now is we're going to jump to the CSX.
OK.
And that's another thing that that varies is sometimes you might do all of your HD Himmel on the whole
page and then start your CSX or you can do what we're going to do and go by basically component by component.
So the nav bar then will move to the showcase then to this part that part and so on.
So let's jump into style that CSX.
And in addition to the now bar styling I want to do just some of the core basic styling like the body
tag and stuff like that.
So I am going to add a CSX reset.
So I'm going to put an asterisk here which means we're grabbing everything and we're going to clear
out the margin and padding OK the default margin and padding that the browser puts on every on a lot
of different elements.
Soon as I save that you'll see that it changes the well the heading that stuff the margin goes away.
And then I also want to add a box sizing property.
And we're gonna set that to border box because when we have boxes that have padding like this right
here I don't want the padding to add to the actual width of the box.
So that's pretty important.
So next we'll have our main styling and what I mean by Main is just like core elements like the body
links headings paragraph all that stuff.
OK.
Anything that really doesn't have a class or an I.D..
So for the body and a lot of times any style the body you'll put in the H T email as well.
So each to our body and then I'm just going to set the font family to I'm going to use one of these
presets for V.S. code we'll use this to argue UI to home Geneva and then let's set the line height too.
I'm gonna set it kind of high.
So one point seven am.
And now that I saved you can see that there's a little more spacing in between the lines.
OK.
Next thing we'll do is the links I want all links by default unless unless the class or I.D. specifies
otherwise I want them to have a color of three three three.
And I also want to remove the underline so we'll do text decoration none and we'll save that okay.
Also the headings so we're going to say H1 H to h three I want spacing underneath.
So if we look at our final project.
So like right here I can see the spacing here spacing here because we move we remove the default margin
and padding there's not going to be any spacing so we need to add that ourselves.
So I'm actually going to do padding bottom 20 pixels.
OK.
And then four paragraphs remember paragraphs by default have a margin but we just removed it with the
reset.
So I'm just going to re add 10 pixel margin on the top and bottom.
OK.
Remember if we do it this way this is top and bottom.
This is left and right.
So those are the those are the core styles.
Now let's move on to the actual nav bar.
So was it an I.D..
Yes we did I.D. nav bar let's put a comment in here just to kind of organize things and I'll say nav
bar I'm going to set the background color her background 2 3 3 3.
I'm gonna set the color to white and let's see what else we're gonna do.
Let's do an overflow Porto so that the background shows no matter what and we'll save that.
And notice said that we can't read the text even though we put color here because the.
All the text that it's all links and if you have links you have to.
You have to add the color specifically to those links.
So remember we have a logo.
So I'm going to do now.
Bar class logo.
I want to style that link and then any other links in the nav bar.
So it's to karma now Navarre actually know what we'll just do.
Just do not bar a.
We don't.
There's no need to do that
and let's say color white and save and now we can actually see the text.
So let's see next thing we want to do is align the logo to the left and we want the the well to be on
the right.
So let's add some floats for that and I would recommend using something like flex blocks but we haven't
gotten to that yet.
So we're just going to use floats.
So let's grab the Navarre H1 and let's do float left.
I'm also going to add some padding to the top to push it down a little bit.
It's two 20 pixels.
OK we'll save that.
Now the well we also want to float that we want to float that to the right.
So it's a bar.
Well we're going to do a couple other things too we want to remove the bullets.
So let's say list style.
None.
And we'll set the margin to zero pad and extra didn't have to do that because we added the reset.
So let's just do float right and save.
And now that's floated over to the right.
So the list items right now we're going vertical we want them to go horizontal so let's grab onto those
we'll say nav bar you al ally or you could just do Navarre Ally it's up to you I like to just keep it
kind of organized like that.
So for the list items we want to float them all to the left and save.
And then everything else that we style as far as these links is good it's going to be on the tag inside.
So let's do that let's say nav bar you al ally a
and we want to display them as blocks OK so that we can add padding and we want to do 20 pixels all
around.
If I save that and kind of pushes them right into place we get 20 pixels all around.
Let's make sure there are lines centred so we'll say text align center.
And what else do you want to do.
I think that's it.
Now I do want to have a hover state right now if I hover over them nothing happens.
So what we can do is take this and just add our pseudo selector of hover so Cole and hover and I'm gonna
say background.
Let's do four four four and let's also make that color a hexadecimal of f..
Let's do F seven see 0 8 a which is this light brownish tarnished color.
So now if I hover over it looks like that.
Now one other thing I want to do is depending on the page or on I wanted to have that effect as well
if we looked at look at the final project you can see that the home page has that effect.
So what we can do is whatever page you're on in the nav bar here we can add a special class and we're
going to add it to the link to the tags.
So center on the home page here.
Let's say class equals and let's call this current OK so we'll go back and then I wanted to have the
same styling there's no sense in recreating it let's just put a comma so that it affects both and we'll
grab this and then just add the class of current.
OK.
And you usually want to put this on a new line just to keep it clean and save.
And now notice the home page has that.
Now before we move on I just want to show you one thing if we stretch us cell really far it's always
on the very edge here and I don't want that usually what you'll do is you'll have a container and move
it into the middle.
OK.
And we don't want to wrap a container around everything because then the black bar will actually get
mad added you know push to the middle.
I want the black bar to go all the way across but I want this stuff to be in the middle so to do that.
What we'll do is add a container class within the NAV because remember the NAV the I.D. nav bars is
where that background is.
So within that we want to have a container class and we want to remove the H1 and the well into that
class and save.
And then we'll style it.
So let's add the container.
I'm actually going to put the container up top because it's kind of a utility class meaning you can
use it all around.
So let's put a comment here and say we'll just say utilities or utility classes
and do container.
So remember margin auto.
Want to do that.
That's going to push it all to the middle.
But we need to have some kind of width.
So for the width we want to use Macs with because we want it to be somewhat responsive as responsive
as we can make it without going into stuff.
We haven't talked about yet like media queries and we're gonna set that to eleven hundred pixels.
That'll be the max with.
All right.
And then let's see.
Let's add in overflow auto just so it always shows the the background doesn't go outside of it.
And then some padding.
I want to do padding.
Let's do zero top and bottom and I just want left and right to have 20 pixels padding.
So let's save that.
And notice that now it's not right up against the edge.
And if I bring this if I bring the browser out it's right when it hits eleven hundred pixels it stops.
Okay.
That's the max width and yet the black bars still goes all the way across.
Now I just want to show you something.
You guys don't have to do this.
But if we had the container on the outside of the nav bar.
OK.
So have that and then the div the ending can div for the container outside of the nav bar and save.
Now the background doesn't reach all the way across because it's restricted inside the container.
OK.
And I don't like the way that that looks I'm Web sites from like you know the like the early 2000s looked
like that where everything was in this this container and then you had some like funky background over
here.
Nowadays you want your backgrounds to extend all the way across and you want to just put your content
inside containers.
OK.
And that's another reason why it's a class and not an idea is because we're going to be using this container
class throughout the throughout the site.
All right so let's just bring that back how it was that was and there we go.
OK.
So that's it.
That's our now bar.
So in the next video we're going to start on the showcase area right here.